The Question I wanted to answer was how does playing away affect a teams performance. I wanted to dive into this question since this season we were unable to perform away from home. Our record way from home was 3-6-2 compared to our undefeated 8-0-1 record at home, coming into this season I knew that playing away would be difficult but this seemed out of the ordinary. I wanted to dive into if this was a Vassar only problem or if this was a league wide thing. I concluded that it was half and half as some teams thrived away from home, like Hobart and others like Bard, Vassar, and Ithaca heavily struggled. I think that out of the top teams in the league we were the ones to struggle the most as most of the other teams in the top five had decent to good records away from home.

As for data cleaning it was pretty straightforward as most of the data was already cleaned and compiled for me, however, I did have to individually go through each teams website to count top the distribution of goals scored away from home and at home as that was no where to be found. For some of these teams I had to take out the goals scored in preseason and other games that did not count towards the overall count. All in all, I had a pretty straightforward data processing and cleaning process which was nice and I enjoyed going through and looking at the data from this season, and keeping a list of who we need to watch out for next season.


Average goals per game: Vassar 2.167 Hobart 1.938 Skidmore 1.625 RPI 1.471 SLU 1.438 RIT 1.438 Bard 1.333 Ithaca 1.118 Clarkson 1.059 Union .833
